docs: add docs for gluon-mesh-vpn-wireguard (#2351)
freifunk-gluon/gluon: docs/features/vpn.rst

To confirm whether the correct cipher is being used, the log output
of fastd can be checked using ``logread``.

> Wireguard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WireGuard
```

^^^^^^^^^

In order to support Wireguard in Gluon, a few technologies are glued together.

> **vxlan:** As Gluon typically relies on batman-adv, the Mesh-VPN has to provide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**vxlan:** As Gluon typically relies on batman-adv, the mesh VPN has to provide
```

Reviewer 2: We usually capitalize it as "Mesh VPN" in English.

Reviewer: In names like DMVPN I could see why, but else?

Reviewer: It would be a `mesh router`, a `mesh group`, why `Mesh VPN`?

Reviewer 2: "mesh router" and "mesh group" sound more natural in my opinion, while "Mesh VPN" is a term we made up for a specific technology. Obviously subjective, but that's the reasoning.

Author: I went with Mesh VPN.

OSI Layer 2 transport. But Wireguard is a OSI-Layer 3 tunneling protocol, so
additional technology is necessary here. For this, we use vxlan. In short, vxlan
is a well-known technology to encapsulate ethernet packages into IP packages.
You can think of it as kind of similar to vlan, but on a different layer. Here,

> we use vxlan to transport batman-adv traffic over Wireguard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we use vxlan to transport batman-adv traffic over WireGuard.
```

**wgpeerselector**: To connect all gluon nodes to each other, it is common to
create a topology where each gluon node is connected to one of the available

> gateways via Mesh-VPN respectively. To achieve this, the gluon node should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gateways via mesh VPN respectively. To achieve this, the gluon node should be
```

able to select a random gateway to connect to. But such "random selection of a

> peer" is not implemented in Wireguard by default. Wireguard only knows static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
peer" is not implemented in WireGuard by default. WireGuard only knows static
```

peers. Therefore the *wgpeerselector* has been developed. It randomly selects a

> gateway, tries to establish a connection, and if it fails, tries to connect one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gateway, tries to establish a connection, and if it fails, tries to connect
```

to the next gateway. This approach has several advantages, such as load
balancing VPN connection attempts and avoiding problems with offline gateways.
More information about the wgpeerselector and its algorithm can be found
`here <https://github.com/freifunk-gluon/packages/blob/master/net/wgpeerselector/README.md>`__.

On the gluon node both vxlan and the wgpeerselector are well integrated and no

> explicit configuation of those tools is necessary, once the general wireguard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
explicit configuation of those tools is necessary, once the general WireGuard
```

support has been configured.

> Special care has to be taken in terms of time synchronization. As WireGuard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attention must by paid to time synchronization. As WireGuard
```

> Special care has to be taken in terms of time synchronization. As wireguard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special care has to be taken in terms of time synchronization. As WireGuard
```

> performs sanity checks on timestamps in order to avoid replay attacks, time must

Reviewer 2: Use of the word "sanity" in technical contexts should be avoided. In this case it can simply be removed without changing the meaning:
```suggestion
performs checks on timestamps in order to avoid replay attacks, time must
```

> be synchronized before the Mesh-VPN connection is established. This means, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be synchronized before the mesh VPN connection is established. This means, that
```

the NTP servers specified in your site.conf must be publicly available (and not
only through the mesh). Be aware that if you fail this, you may not directly see
negative effects. Only when a previously connected node reboots, the effect
comes into play, as the gateway still knows about the old timestamp of the gluon
node.

Gateway / Supernode Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the gateway side, a software called *wireguard-vxlan-glue* is necessary. It
is a small daemon, that dynamically adds and removes forwarding rules for vxlan

> interfaces, so traffic is sent correctly into the wireguard interface. Thereby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interfaces, so traffic is sent correctly into the WireGuard interface. Thereby
```
